Steam Slow Download Solution
Published on June 27, 2010.
I just bought Civ IV on Steam, because there’s some kind of sale.
I started downloading it and it was giving me a measly ~200 KB/S download speed.
This kind of sucked because I wanted to play pretty soon, and it would take a few hours at that rate.
I looked in the preferences for downloads, and noticed that I was connected to their Chicago datacenter.
I tried switching it to Detroit and I still got some lame speeds.
Then I switched to Phoenix, Arizona. And voila:
My hypothesis was that the datacenters were dying from the load of the Steam summer sale.
So I tried picking a datacenter in a less sparsely populated area (Phoenix probably isn’t serving that much load compared to Chicago or New York), even though it was further away.
I think my hypothesis stands.
So if you’re experiencing slow downloads, try picking a datacenter that’s further away.
Just wait until my download is finished first. 🙂